Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have been plagued with several nasty rumors ever since they confirmed their relationship. Now, new reports are claiming that the couple is currently on the verge of breaking up due to the Angelina Jolie's ailing health.



Advertisement

Brad Pitt's cheating scandal caused Angelina Jolie's ailing health



Reports have it that Angelina Jolie is currently suffering from anorexia, headaches and paranoia. It has also been reported that Brad Pitt was trying his best to let Angelina Jolie eat more but to no avail.



Angelina Jolie's present situation has reportedly caused marital problems between her and husband Brad Pitt. As a matter of fact, Pitt purportedly warned Jolie to leave her if the "Maleficent" actress will not get her act together.



Meanwhile, other reports claimed that Angelina Jolie is experiencing so much stress after news about Brad Pitt being unfaithful to her spread like wildfire. While these reports remained unconfirmed as of yet, Jolie previously confessed to People that she is looking forward to grow old with Pitt.



The "Salt" actress said that she and Brad Pitt are lucky to witness the beauty in each other's progress. In fact, Angelina Jolie said that she is not afraid of growing old and she embraces it.



Angelina Jolie also claimed that working on "By the Sea" movie together has strengthened their relationship as a couple. She even admitted that they have their fair share of fights and arguments, but they usually end up loving each other more. "As much as we can argue and fight, and we all have our challenges, at the end I say, 'My job is to love him,'" the 40-year-old "Lara Croft" actress said.



Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt moving to London with kids



Earlier this year, a source revealed to Us Weekly that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are moving to London with their six kids. The unnamed source claimed that the entire Jolie-Pitt brood will set up camp in London for six months while the "Fury" actor films his upcoming sci-fi movie "World War Z 2."



The insider revealed that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are planning to but their own house in London. However, they have not found a place the suit their preferences such as a courtyard and an underground drive-in entrance.



Advertisement

Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have been together for nine years before they decided to get married in August 2014. The couple has six children: twins Knox and Vivienne, 7, Zahara, 9, Pax 11 and Maddox, 14.



Do you think Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are heading to a divorce any time soon? What do you think are the reasons behind Angelina Jolie's ailing health? Share to us your thoughts in the comment section below.

