Fans are freaking out over Meghan Trainor's 'Photoshopped' Seventeen cover

Jodie Sweetin has the kindest words for her Full House grandma, Doris Roberts

For Cailyn Cox, writing isn't just a hobby, it's her life. Passionate about Hollywood, she makes it her mission to find the most entertaining celebrity gossip for SheKnows readers. And when she's not enthralled in the celeb world, she's ...

Image: Tony Forte/WENN

Print

Aside from Angelina Jolie's notable accomplishments, she's also a stunningly beautiful woman; and now there's more of her to love (kind of) because it turns out she has a doppelgänger.

More: Angelina Jolie makes powerful speech about the poor treatment of women

The woman in question is 21-year-old model Mara Teigen, who bares such a striking resemblance to Jolie that you may have to do a double take.

What is your favorite thing that I post? Selfies, outfits, makeup etc.. I'm curious A photo posted by MARA TEIGEN (@marateigen_) on Apr 13, 2016 at 12:43pm PDT

Seriously, just look at those lips.

Saturday selfie Wearing 'CandyK' liner @kyliecosmetics A photo posted by MARA TEIGEN (@marateigen_) on Apr 9, 2016 at 2:21pm PDT

And, of course, the Internet is freaking out.

Comments on the pictures include one from xmen_dofp_logan, who wrote, "The resemblance is incredible, better than the original, i truly hope you will be in Movies, Tombraider 3 [sic] perhaps?"

"You look like Angelina Jolie right here oh my gosh so beautiful," raainexo_ shared.

"Angelina jolie twin is that u," _14.02.15 wrote. And marisarosay was also blown away by the uncanny resemblance, writing, "modern day Angelina Jolie."

Can't sleep A photo posted by MARA TEIGEN (@marateigen_) on Mar 18, 2016 at 2:42am PDT

I just want to say that I feel very blessed to have the friends and family that I do. And of course all of you guys, you are all so sweet and amazing. I love you all! Always focus on the positives. Life is what you make it I hope all of you are smiling a lot today A photo posted by MARA TEIGEN (@marateigen_) on Mar 22, 2016 at 11:11am PDT

More: Angelina Jolie confesses she didn't want to be a mom at first

Teigen (no relationship to Chrissy, we don't think) has been hanging around Kylie Jenner recently, and the pair have a few snaps together: She's also one of the models in Jenner's Glosses video — created to promote her cosmetic line, Kylie Cosmetics.

Bae's all in @kyliecosmetics • @kyliecosmetics @victoriavillarroel @jordynwoods A photo posted by MARA TEIGEN (@marateigen_) on Mar 31, 2016 at 1:48pm PDT

According to PopSugar, Teigen also has appeared in advertisements for Milani Cosmetics and Frankie's Bikinis.

She's beautiful, and is clearly making a name for herself in the industry (plus she's racking up fans on Instagram and already has 580,000 followers), but she also seems to be a pretty positive, upbeat person, and her photos are filled with smiling, happy photos. Just like this one, which she captioned with, "Smiling is the best cure for most things."

Too true.

Smiling is the best cure for most things A photo posted by MARA TEIGEN (@marateigen_) on Apr 18, 2016 at 12:40pm PDT

More: Jennifer Aniston finally admits how she really feels about Angelina Jolie

Do you also think Mara Teigen looks a lot like Angelina Jolie? Share your thoughts with us in the comments below.

Before you go, check out our slideshow below.