Sign Up for GamenGuide's Newsletter and never miss out on our most popular stories.



Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are totally splitting primarily because of "Allied" actress Marion Cotillard.

(Photo: Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for WSJ. Magazine 2015 Innovator Awards)

Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are hitting the divorce headlines again lately. Now, new reports are claiming that the "Mr. and Mrs. Smith" stars are divorcing really soon because of Marion Cotillard.

Advertisement

Jealous Angelina Jolie divorcing Brad Pitt because of Marion Cotillard

Rumor mill is spreading that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt might end up to a divorce after the "Salt" actress got extremely jealous with Marion Cotillard. There is no denying that "The Big Short" actor has been involved to several alleged cheating scandals before, which could be the reason why his wife gets paranoid every time she hears new rumors.

Sources have claimed that Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard are cheating on Angelina Jolie. Reports are saying that the "Allied" stars are secretly hooking up whenever they are not working for the film.

As a matter of fact, previous reports have divulged that Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard were spotted locking their lips in public. The reports did not make Angelina Jolie happy at all that she, reportedly, warned to file a divorce.

Adding fuel to the alleged Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt divorce rumors are the claims that the "Maleficent" star is very much envious with the fact that Marion Cotillard could win an Oscar for her exemplary performance in the "Allied" movie. Reports say that Billy Bob's former flame has not had a hit since her film with the "Troy" actor.

Several fans have lauded Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard after the official trailer of the "Allied" film has been released. However, the jeers have left Angelina Jolie totally envious with the pair that it could possibly lead to a divorce.

Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are not having a divorce at all despite reports

Advertisement

Meanwhile, Gossip Cop has reported that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are not divorcing at all. The entertainment news outlet has debunked reports that the A-list Hollywood couple are splitting very soon.

Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are yet to comment on these reports. Stay tuned to GamenGuide for the latest news and updates on the alleged Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt divorce.