Find out why Angelina Jolie is being blamed for her and Brad Pitt's rumored divorce.

Sign Up for Newsletter

Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie may be headed for a split -- and it could be all Jolie's fault.

According to a recent update, Jolie has embarked on some "self-destructive" behavior that may be too much for her husband, Pitt, to handle.

"Others would normally expect a husband to be truly supportive of his wife. [But] recently, news on Brad says that he seems to be getting tired of Angelina and her 'self-destructive' tendencies," the Morning Ledger reported on Monday.

Advertisement

Pitt and Jolie married in Aug. 2014 after about 10 years of dating and since then, they have become the adoptive parents of Maddox, 14, Pax, 12, and Zahara, 11, and welcomed biological children Shiloh, 10, and 7-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne.

During a 2011 interview with USA Today, Jolie opened up about her past, admitting she was often self-destructive.

"I was just being a young girl who was experimental, bold and a bit nutty," she explained. "I was absolutely self-destructive. I think a lot of young people in this business lose their way. You don't know what is of value. You don't know where you are. And you know something's wrong, because it isn't life as it actually is. It's like living in some warped reality."

"Once I started to learn about the world and I became grateful for everything that I certainly have. Since going through my first war zone, never have I woken up and not been simply grateful," she continued.

Jolie also claimed she put her self-destructive ways behind her after adopting her first child, Maddox.

Advertisement

"I knew once I committed to Maddox, I would never be self-destructive again. Now I have five more, so I have to behave," she claimed.

As for what possibly changed Jolie's mindset in the years since her interview, the Morning Ledger spoke of concerns of her husband's infidelity.

Since Pitt began filming Allied in London with co-stars Marion Cotillard and Lizzy Caplan, rumors have been swirling in regard to possible on-set affairs with both women. More on that below.