Moving vans were seen arriving at the couple's Los Feliz compound on Wednesday morning

Angelina Jolie and her team have set up a war room in a secretly rented Los Angeles home as they prepare to take on Brad Pitt in the divorce of the century.

At the same time, a source close to the couple tells DailyMail.com that Pitt just wants to resolve the divorce amicably for the sake of the children, whose safety is his main concern at this time.

'Brad still cares for Angelina very much and respects her as the mother of his children,' says the source.

'But after the rhetoric that has been put out over the past 24 hours about his drinking and doing drugs, along with the completely untrue rumors about him having an affair with his co-star Marion Cotillard, he is hoping to be able to turn the volume down.'

The source then added that while people close to Jolie have been going after Pitt in the press, he is making sure that his friends and colleagues say nothing negative about his estranged wife.

'People close to him specifically avoided criticizing her while trying to stay positive in defending him at Brad's request,' explains the source.

Meanwhile, moving vans were seen arriving at the couple's Hollywood Hills compound on Wednesday morning.

Scroll down for videos

It's on: Angelina Jolie has set up a war room in Los Angeles as she prepares to take on Brad Pitt (couple above at the 2015 Academy Awards)

Getting to work: Moving vans were seen entering the couple's Los Feliz compound on Wednesday (above)

Getting the job done: Jolie rented her new home in Los Angeles without Pitt's knowledge,m leaving him shocked according to a source

All about the children: A source close to the couple says that Pitt's main concern at this time is the safety of their children (family above in June 2011)

Not happy: Pitt reportedly said Jolie 'unleashed hell' because the entire family has now become paparazzi targets (couple above in Mr. and Mrs. Smith)

Pitt is said to be 'furious' at Jolie for filing for divorce, a move he says could put their kids at risk, and sources have now said there is 'no chance' he will allow her to claim sole custody.

Sources close to Pitt told TMZ that he is angry at his estranged wife for allegedly spinning stories about him being a potential risk to their kids because of 'anger issues and substance abuse'.

Pitt reportedly said the actress has 'unleashed hell' because the entire family has become targets for the paparazzi while reports have also claimed that a shocking 'incident' may have prompted the divorce.

Over the last few days, Pitt has had conversations with Jolie pleading for her to handle the divorce 'like adults', sources told the site. He said he wanted to keep the divorce under wraps for the benefit of their children.

The Hollywood stars' home is now surrounded by photographers, with the Los Angeles Police Department patrolling regularly because of the media frenzy.

Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt on Monday for 'the health of her family', two years after the couple wed at their French estate Chateau Miraval.

The actress filed papers citing irreconcilable differences as the reason for the split and asked for physical custody of the couple's six children - Maddox, age 15; Pax, aged 12; Zahara, aged 11; Shiloh, aged 10; and twins Vivienne and Knox, aged eight.

A source close to the couple said that Jolie, 41, made the decision to file because of the way 'Brad was parenting the children,' adding that 'she was extremely upset with his methods'.

That same source claimed Jolie became 'fed up' with Pitt's consumption of 'weed and possibly alcohol' mixed with his 'anger problem'.

It has also been revealed that Pitt was blindsided and was told that Jolie was divorcing him just a day before she filed the legal papers, a source told the Mirror.

This despite the fact that Jolie listed their official separation date as September 15 - last Thursday.

Pitt allegedly visited his lawyer to discuss how to move forward in Los Angeles hours after Jolie met with her lawyer.

Jolie, who is being represented by Laura Wasser, is not asking for spousal support in the divorce. Wasser most recently represented Johnny Depp in his divorce from Amber Heard.

The couple had not been seen together in months and were last photographed on a red carpet together in November of last year while promoting their film By The Sea.

The source said the pair had been planning a trip to London but it was canceled Monday, the same day Jolie filed for divorce.

Under California divorce law, the couple will not be allowed to leave the state or the country with any of their six children unless they have the consent of the other parent.

The couple are both expected to begin filming in the near future on two big projects, with Pitt set to reprise his role as Gerry Lane in a World War Z sequel and Jolie once again putting on her horns to play the classic Disney villain Maleficent.

Jolie will also soon be doing press for her Netflix documentary First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers, while Pitt will be out promoting Allied before it bows in theaters later this year.

He also stars alongside Tilda Swinton in the 2017 release War Machine, which has wrapped production.

Tense moment: A source also claims Jolie became 'fed up' with Pitt's consumption of 'weed and possibly alcohol' mixed with his 'anger problem' (couple above in November 2014 in Sydney)

Last shot: The couple the last time they were seen together at a LA pharmacy with son Knox (above) on his birthday

The Hollywood stars' home is now surrounded by photographers, while the Los Angeles Police Department (pictured) patrols regularly because of the media frenzy

Pitt and Jolie began dating in early 2005 after they met on the set of Mr & Mrs Smith.

Page Six claimed that it was after Jolie learned through a private eye that Pitt may have been cheating on her with Marion Cotillard on the set of their new film Allied that she made the decision to split from the actor.

But a source close to the couple claims that the actress was so jealous of Cotillard that she refused to speak with the French star after meeting her on the set of the film Allied.

'Angelina completely ignored Marion on the set, and when Marion tried to talk to her she just looked the other way,' the source told DailyMail.com.

'Marion was devastated. Here she is thinking she is going to meet this great UN ambassador and instead Angelina refuses to speak to the woman because of her own jealousy.'

The source also said that rumors of an affair between Pitt and Cotillard are '100 per cent false', and that Pitt's main concern at this time is his children.

'He does not want them reading anything negative in the press about himself or their mother,' said the source.

'He's not going to get dirty.'

As for the reason for Jolie's jealousy the source said: 'Because of the way women view her she projects her own stuff onto innocent women like Marion.'

Cotillard, 40, has been in a relationship with actor and writer Canet, 43, since 2007, and the couple have a 5-year-old son, Marcel.

The French magazine Closer is reporting that Cotillard has confirmed that she is expecting her second child with partner Guillaume Canet this December - after being dragged into the Brangelina divorce drama.

Shutting it down: A source close to Pitt claims rumors of an affair with Marion Cotillard (above in Allied) are '100 per cent false'

Out and about: Cotillard with her partner Guillaume Canet in 2015 (left) with whom she has a five-year-old son; At the premiere of her film Juste La Fin Du Monde in Paris last week (right)

An attorney for Jolie, Robert Offer, said Tuesday in a statement that she has filed for the dissolution of the marriage 'for the health of the family'.

He then added: 'She will not be commenting, and asks that the family be given its privacy at this time.'

Jolie's manager Geyer Kosinski also released a statement, saying: 'Angelina will always do what's in the best interest to protect her children.

'She appreciates everyone's understanding of their need for privacy at this time.'

Pitt said in a statement to DailyMail.com: 'I am very saddened by this, but what matters most now is the well being of our kids. I kindly ask the press to give them the space they deserve during this challenging time.'

Cotillard has yet to respond to a request for comment from DailyMail.com, but a source close to the actress said: 'Marion and Guillaume are blissfully happy, and these kind of claims are not what Marion wants to be hearing.

'Claims that she's cheating on Guillaume with Brad will leave her absolutely devastated. This doesn't sound like her at all.'

The source added: 'She enjoys her family time, and wants to enjoy more of it. All this fuss will be a huge shock to her.'

This will be the third divorce for Jolie, who was previously married to Elementary star Johnny Lee Miller for three years after the pair met on the set of the film Hackers.

She later wed Billy Bob Thornton just two months after the pair began dating when they met on the set of Pushing Tin.

Thornton had been engaged to actress Laura Dern at the time.

Pitt's first marriage to Aniston ended in 2005, with rumors swirling at the time that it was because of his relationship with Jolie.

Now, friends say Aniston sees the impending divorce of Pitt and his second wife as 'karma' for what happened to her 11 years ago.

An insider told Us Weekly, that Aniston commented on Tuesday after the split was revealed: 'Yeah, that's karma for you!'

The actress, 47, 'admittedly feels sort of satisfied about Brad and Angelina's split', according to the insider.

Prior to that Pitt was engaged to Gwyneth Paltrow and dated actress Juliette Lewis for three years in the early 1990s, despite being a decade older than the then teenager.

The split comes less than a year after the two released By the Sea, which told the story of an unhappily married couple.

Jolie directed and starred in the film alongside Pitt, and admitted how difficult the shoot was at times.

'It was our way of testing ourselves. We knew that if we could get through this, we'd come out even stronger and happier. And we did,' she said of making the film.

'We've always liked putting ourselves through challenges, even though it was maybe a little more dangerous for us as a couple.'

She then added: 'I don't think we want to go through it again though.'

In another interview Jolie said of the unhappy couple at the center of the film, played by herself and Pitt: 'It almost makes you get past those issues because you can laugh at them.

'You do a film about bad marriage and you witness that behavior. You study it, you let it out, you attack each other and then you just want to hold each other and make sure you never behave that way.'

The two also said that the filming of the movie on Malta served as their honeymoon.

Past love: Pitt was previously married to actress Jennifer Aniston (left in 1999, right in 2005 days before they announced their split)

Caught: The first photo of the pair as a couple was published in April 2005, showing them with son Maddox in Kenya (above)

Former flames: Pitt was in a three-year relationship with Juliette Lewis (on left at the 1992 Academy Awards); Pitt was engaged to Gwyneth Paltrow (on right at the 1992 Academy Awards)

Jolie adopted her first son Maddox in March 2002, two years before she met Pitt on the set of Mr. and Mrs. Smith.

The film was originally set to star Nicole Kidman, but the actress dropped out at the last second.

The couple denied that they were together, even after US Weekly ran photos in April 2005 of the two playing with Maddox at their rented villa on Diani Beach, Kenya.

Shortly after it was revealed that Pitt was by Jolie's side three months later when she adopted daughter Zahara from an orphanage in Ethiopia.

Soon after, Pitt formally adopted Jolie's son Maddox, with the children changing their surname to Jolie-Pitt.

The pair finally announced they were together in 2006 after Jolie became pregnant with Pitt's child.

Shiloh Jolie-Pitt was born in May 2006 in Namibia, with the couple choosing to give birth in Africa to avoid a press frenzy.

The following March the couple adopted again, this time traveling to Vietnam and adding three-year-old Pax Thien as the newest member of the family.

Jolie then became pregnant once more, confirming in May 2008 that the couple was expecting twins.

Knox and Vivienne were born in July of that year, with the first photos of the two selling for an astounding $14 million in a deal between Hello and People.

The two held off on getting married however, but said in interviews that their six children wanted them to tie the knot.

They finally revealed that they were engaged in April 2012, and were married a little over two years later in August 2014.

During that time, Jolie secretly underwent a double mastectomy in February 2013 after discovering she had a defective BRCA-1 gene that put her at high risk of developing breast and ovarian cancers.

Exes: This will be the third divorce for Jolie, who was previously married to actors Johnny Lee Miller (left in 1998) and Billy Bob Thornton (right in 2002)

They do: Pitt and Jolie's wedding ceremony featured only their six children, and Jolie wore a custom Versace dress which featured drawings done by her sons and daughters

Weighing in: 'It's very sad. Something very serious must have happened for Angelina to make a decision like this,' said Jolie's father John Voight (pair above in 2001, Jolie with brother James Haven on right at the Golden Globes in 2000)

Jolie later had her ovaries removed in early 2015, something she spoke about last November with NBC's Tom Brokaw in her first joint interview with Pitt in more than a decade.

In that interview, Jolie praised Pitt for his support while she underwent the two procedures.

'I knew through the surgeries that he was on my side and that this wasn't something where I was going to feel less of a woman, because my husband wasn't going to let that happen,' said Jolie.

Pitt meanwhile said he would do 'whatever's got to be done to keep the family together', adding that he would 'keep the family together as long as possible'.

He then added: 'This was her charge, no question. It's a scary decision. There's many things that can go wrong and go many different directions.'

The couple's wedding took place at Chateau Miraval, their home in France.

The secret ceremony featured only their six children, and Jolie wore a custom Versace dress which featured drawings done by her sons and daughters.

Jolie's actor father Jon Voight spoke about his daughter's high-profile split in an interview with Inside Edition on Tuesday.

'It's very sad. Something very serious must have happened for Angelina to make a decision like this,' said Voight.

He then added: 'I am concerned for Angie and the children, and hopefully I'll be seeing them very soon.'

Former co-star and friend George Clooney was working with President Obama at the United Nations to solve the global refugee crisis, when he found out about the divorce.

Clooney could not hide his shock when he was told his friends had split.

When he was asked about the news at the UN General Assembly in New York by CNN, shocked George asked, 'What happened?'

And upon learning Jolie was the one who had lodged divorce papers, the 55-year-old said: 'I didn't know that. Wow.

'It's an unfortunate story about a family. I feel very sorry to hear that.'

On the market: Pitt and Jolie are now reportedly trying to sell their French estate, Chateau Miraval (above)

Main pad: When in the US, the family spends most of their time in the Los Feliz home that Pitt bought in 1994 and where he once lived with Aniston (above)

Breaking the news: CNN's Richard Roth had the delicate task of informing George Clooney of his friends' split while Clooney was working with President Obama at the United Nations to solve the global refugee crisis

The couple's combined wealth has been estimated at $400 million with much of it tied up in property they've collected all over the world.

That includes their aforementioned French property, Chateau Miraval, in addition to multiple estates in California and a mansion in New Orleans.

They listed their French Quarter home back in 2015 for $6.5 million, then slashed the asking price on their Big Easy home by $850,000, bringing it to $5.65 million.

That property is still on the market.

The family's main residence however is still the Los Feliz home that Pitt purchased from Elvira, Mistress of the Dark back in 1994.

He used to live at the Los Feliz home with Aniston.

Pitt snapped up that property for just $1.7 million, but then spent years doing massive renovations on the property while also buying up nearby lots when they went on the market.

The two also have at least one apartment in New York City, a 12,000 acre wildlife preserve in Cambodia, and used to own a compound in Malibu, which they sold in 2011 to Pitt and Aniston's good friend Ellen DeGeneres.

The couple also started the Jolie-Pitt Foundation together in 2006.

The foundation has donated millions of dollars to diverse causes such as efforts to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina and the tornado that ravaged Joplin, Missouri; children's health centers in Ethiopia and Cambodia; the N/a'an ku sê Foundation in Namibia; GlobaL Action for Children; the HALO Trust; and Doctors Without Borders.

The foundation's site has been taken down for 'renovation'.

BRANGELINA - A TIMELINE OF A VERY HOLLYWOOD ROMANCE May 2004 : Although Brad is married to Jennifer Aniston at the time, rumors of an on-set romance swirl after Pitt and Angelina Jolie start filming Mr & Mrs Smith. January 2005 : Brad and Jennifer announce in a joint statement that after 'much thoughtful consideration' they had decided to split. They add: 'We happily remain committed and caring friends with great love and admiration for one another.' March 2005 : Jennifer files for divorce citing 'irreconcilable differences' as speculation about Brad and Angelina's romance continued. April 2005 : Brad and Angelina's relationship is confirmed after paparazzi photographs of them on holiday in Kenya with her son Maddox surfaced. They have yet to speak publicly about it. July 2005 : Jennifer is reportedly left heartbroken when Brad and Angelina take part in a revealing photo shoot for W magazine entitled Domestic Bliss. The photo essay shows them as a couple with children. Later that month Angelina adopts her second child, daughter Zahara, from Ethiopia. September 2005 : Jennifer slams Brad as having a 'sensitivity chip missing' following the W photo shoot, which he brainstormed. October 2005 : Brad and Aniston's divorce is finalized. January 2006 : Angelina and Brad announce she is pregnant with their first child while Brad applies to formally adopt her children Maddox and Zahara. May 2006 : The couple's first biological child Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt is born in Swakopmund, Namibia. December 2006 : Angelina tells Vogue that while filming Mr & Mrs Smith, she couldn't 'wait to get to work' to see Brad. Two years later, Jennifer brands the comments 'uncool'. March 2007 : Jolie adopts three-year-old Pax Thien from Vietnam. May 2008 : At the Cannes Film Festival, Angelina confirms she is expecting twins. Knox Leon and Vivienne Marcheline are born in July. October 2008 : Angelina reveals her romance with Brad began while he was married to Jennifer as she says they 'fell in love' on the set of Mr & Mrs Smith. The pair had always maintained up until this point that their relationship only started after he split from Jennifer. September 2011 : Brad tells Parade magazine that before Angelina he 'wasn't living an interesting life'. He added: 'I think that my marriage had something to do with it. Trying to pretend the marriage was something that it wasn't.' He said he's finally a 'satisfied man' with Angelina. He later insisted the comments were misunderstood, adding: 'Jen is an incredibly giving, loving, and hilarious woman who remains my friend.' December 2011/January 2012 : The couple admit in separate interviews that the children are encouraging them to marry. While they had planned to wait until gay marriage was legal, they reveal the pressure from the children is strong. April 2012 : Brad and Angelina reveal their engagement. February 2013 : Angelina has a secret double mastectomy after discovering she had a defective BRCA-1 gene that put her at high risk of developing breast and ovarian cancers. She tells the world about it in a New York Times Op Ed in May. July 2014 : It is announced that Brad and Angelina will reunite on the big screen for the first time since Mr & Mrs Smith. Jolie will write and direct – the 'intimate, character-driven drama' By the Sea. August 2014 : The couple tie the knot in a secret ceremony at Chateau Miraval in France and after a short family honeymoon in Nice, the Jolie-Pitts head to Malta to start shooting By The Sea. September 2016 : Angelina files for divorce citing 'irreconcilable differences'.



